# [Minutes] UA String Reduction - 2021-11-01

## Attendees:

* Karl Dubost, Mozilla
* Chris Peterson, Mozilla
* Mike Taylor, Google
* Ali Beyad, Google

## Agenda - Minutes

### Version 100 testing

#### WebCompat UA override

Karl: we started to put in ua overrides for sites that will break in v100. We have site interventions where we can fix sites. :denschub has been working on this - added a new function to fix a 100 bug (to make it 99). Not yet released, in a code freeze. We have already added some domains.
Ali: is this to test if they’ll work with 99?
Karl: when the site is breaking with 100, we test that it’s working with another version. The goal is to make it work. In parallel, we can do outreach, but often it’s costly in time and we don’t always get good results.
Ali: like a list of sites to send v99?
Karl: Yes
Chris: We’re running an experiment in Beta where we’re spoofing v100 and hoping people report bugs.

* see Firefox meta [Bug 1743429](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1743429) for these site overrides
* [webcompat issues tagged with version100](https://github.com/webcompat/web-bugs/labels/version100)

#### Any news from Chrome’s testing?

Mike: running experiment in Chrome 96 in Canary and Dev
Karl: we’ve found some sites for you, we got one yesterday. If a bug is breaking in Firefox 100, I test if it works in 95 or 96. The second thing is to try with Chrome 100, to see if it’s only for Firefox or for Chrome as well.
Mike: we also have this Yell bug: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1273958 affecting multiple sites.
Mike: And Karl highlighted this other site returning a 403 https://github.com/webcompat/web-bugs/issues/95003
Chris: do you have any plans to run in stable channel? On Firefox side we’re nervous about breaking in stable release.
Ali: Not right now, we’re hesitant as well.

#### Any reason to not ship 100?

Nothing feels too scary.
Individual site overrides will probably be practical.
(Note: Mike: But, that could change in the near future depending on what we continue to uncover (especially with the 403 issue))

#### What about communications around v100?
Mike: Google published a blog post about it.
Mike: it could be interesting to use the devtools to send a message.
Chris: it could be possible to propose developers through devtools switch to UA 100. Or default to v100 while devtools are open?
Mike: After opening devtools, a splash page is giving information about the new features. We could use that. Maybe.
Mike: we could try to write a co-blogpost and publish it on moz-hacks and web.dev blogs.

**AI: miketaylr to ping devrel and see if that’s a thing that we can do?
then ask for people to promote the blog posts on social media.**

**Firefox release calendar**
Firefox Nightly 100 starts 2022-03-03.
Firefox 100 Release on 2022-05-03.

**Chrome Release Calendar**
Canary 100 on 2022-02-17
Release 100 on 2022-03-29

### Next steps for UA reduction?
Karl: we had some breakage this week. The site was working with “Android 11” and “Android 12.0”, but “Android 12” breaks. Time to time things break, because sites are expecting the minor version. Firefox does not send the minor version.
Mike: We are planning to freeze the Android version to “Android 10” (not “Android 10.0”)
in Chrome 110: https://blog.chromium.org/2021/09/user-agent-reduction-origin-trial-and-dates.html
https://www.chromium.org/updates/ua-reduction#TOC-Token-Reference
“Linux; Android 10; K” ⇐ intended frozen version for Android UA string
Mike: But real Android version will be accessible in UA-CH.
Karl: We need to be careful about Freezing (with client hints) and Freezing (without client hints). The level of information is not the same. Currently Blink is sending Client Hints, but not Safari and Firefox. Brave has turned them off. Vivaldi are sending them to some sites.
Mike: It would probably be useful to document in an informational document what user agent strings looks like today. Explaining which parts are frozen in Safari, Firefox and Chrome.
e.g. MDN article about Firefox’s UA string: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/User-Agent/Firefox
Published on https://github.com/whatwg/compat

**AI: miketaylr will write a document comparing various browsers’ UA strings before Dec 10.  (anyone welcome to contribute)**

