# [Minutes] UA String Reduction - 2022-06-24

## Attendees:

* Chris Peterson, Mozilla
* Mike Taylor, Google

### Version 100
* Any new version 100 compat issues?
    * Ali says: We haven't had any significant issues reported with v100 either.  Seems like the Web has survived :)
    * No major problems reported in webcompat’s version100 issues.
    * At this time, we can stop tracking version 100 compat issues in this meeting.
    * DONE!

### Compat Standard
* Next steps for Compat Standard’s UA section?
    * https://compat.spec.whatwg.org/#ua-string-section
    * Mike documented Chrome’s minor version reduction.
    * Just fixing doc bugs and documenting Chrome’s UA reductions.

### navigator.userAgentData
* FYI: Mozilla is considering implementing the navigator.userAgentData API.
* https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1750143
* Mike: please file spec issues; open to feedback.

### UA reductions?
* Did Google ship reduced Chrome major.0.0.0 version numbers in Chrome 101?
    * As per your UA reduction rollout schedule: https://www.chromium.org/updates/ua-reduction/#proposed-rollout-plan
    * [Chris] Is this reduction being rolled out incrementally? My Chrome 101 UA still says “Chrome/101.0.4951.54”, not “Chrome/101.0.0.0”.
    * Now fixed: “Chrome/102.0.0.0”
    * Ali says:
        * It's shipped on Canary/Dev/Beta, but we are still waiting for the full rollout of M101 to complete on Windows & MacOS before rolling out the reduced Chrome version string to stable 1%.  A week or so after that, we'll do 10% stable, and a week or so after that, 100% stable.
        * We also noticed an increase in 400s and 500s HTTP response codes in our Canary/Dev/Beta experiments, and based on crbug.com/1317577, we thought to try freezing the BUILD number at 9999 instead of 0.  The metrics looked better for the experiment we ran on Canary; depending on how the results continue to look on other channels, we may end up freezing the BUILD number at 9999 instead of 0.
        * Update: the HTTP error codes stabilized once we tested on stable, so we did end up shipping “0” vs “9999”.

### Anti-abuse/DOS concerns

* Anti-abuse/DOS concerns around losing UA string entropy?
    * UA reductions will make DOS investigations more difficult.
    * Maybe we need to invent new solutions in this space. Unclear what.
    * Token-based solutions, perhaps.

### New action items:
* Chris will commandeer Karl’s meeting invite and create a new Zoom room. DONE
* Chris will ask Mozilla webcompat team about the remaining webcompat’s version100 issues.
* Mike will fix compat spec typo: Chrome/<majorVersion> -> Chrome/<majorVersion.0.0.0>
* Mike will update minutes: https://github.com/whatwg/compat/tree/main/uastring/minutes
* Chrome 107 will reduce UA string’s OS version: https://www.chromium.org/updates/ua-reduction#sample-ua-strings-phase-5
* See you in a month.

