# [Minutes] UA String Reduction - 2022-01-05

## Attendees:

* Karl Dubost, Mozilla
* Chris Peterson, Mozilla
* Mike Taylor, Google
* Ali Beyad, Google

## Agenda - Minutes


### Action items from last meeting:

* Ali will sync with Google devrel about co-publishing blog posts about version 100 compatibility.
    * Devrel is eager to collaborate. Rowan Merewood (Google DevRel) is happy to help / collaborate / get this published from the Google side. Karl is happy to participate from Mozilla side. Chris happy to help with edits. Ali happy to participate from Google.
    * Outline:
        * Should have schedule of releases clearly laid out
        * What kinds of mitigations that Chrome can do, what Firefox can do.
        * Possibly types of patterns for bugs?
    * Instructions for testing your site with Chrome or Firefox 100.
* Mike start documenting the structure of different browsers' UA strings: [draft: User-Agent string patterns](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LFFl_N473aAibZzosvvKmX2OGwaZgW5dmRTE2j9nUgw/edit)

### Version 100 testing?

* Still running version 100 experiments in Firefox Nightly. Some broken sites found and fixed. No major breakage.
* Following up from Yell Business and Duda breakage.
    * Seems like these were all fixed. \o/
    * Thinking about having a 99.100.NNNN.0 backup plan, just in case™. But I don’t think we’ll need it.
        * NNNN is Chrome build number.
    * Firefox backup plan is to override UA for individual sites or freeze version at 99.0 and stick real version in Gecko/ token:
        * `Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; rv:100.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/100.0`
        * `Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; rv:99.0) Gecko/100 Firefox/99.0`
* [List of version 100 bugs](https://github.com/webcompat/web-bugs/labels/version100)
* Chrome started an experiment to test v100 in webview. But there were bugs, so it didn’t actually work yet. [Going to try to get some testing in](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/HEAD/android_webview/docs/faq.md#why-do-i-need-to-update-webview), but not a lot of time left.

### Firefox proposal for UA reductions

* Chris is writing a Firefox proposal to implement some of Chrome’s planned UA reductions.

### New action items:
* Ali Beyad to draft it up joint blog post first, send to kdubost@mozilla.com& cpeterson@mozilla.com for review.
* [DONE] Karl Dubost will contact owner of Mozilla Hacks blog, let them know about our upcoming Firefox 100 post.
    * Mozilla Hacks blog owner: Melissa Thermidor
    * Mozilla Hacks blog post request template
* Mike Taylor will finish documenting UA string patterns: draft: [User-Agent string patterns(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LFFl_N473aAibZzosvvKmX2OGwaZgW5dmRTE2j9nUgw/edit)]




